Ft wcag2 (#1129)
a11yproject/a11yproject.com: src/posts/2020-10-14-wcag2.md

---
layout: post

> title: Introduction to WCAG 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Introduction to WCAG 2.0
```

Author: Hello Eric, I've addressed the issue mentioned above

> description: WCAG is a set of accessibility guidelines published by WAI...

Reviewer: Can we have a more descriptive description? It should, in 1-2 sentences, inform the reader about what they can expect to read about in the post.

Author: Yes we can. What do you think about  " A quick overview of WCAG 2 documents" ?

category: Background
author: Hamsa Harcourt
further_reading:
  - url: https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#intro-layers-guidance 
    title:  Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0
    source: W3C 
  - url:  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Content_Accessibility_Guidelines
    title: Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
    source: Wikipedia
date: 2020-10-14
eleventyNavigation:
  key: {{ category }}
  title: {{ title }}
tags:
  - background

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
---

```

> The **[Web Content Accessibility Guidelines**](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/) (WCAG) are part of a series of web accessibility guidelines published by the **[Web Accessibility Initiative](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/)** (WAI) . The WCAGs goal is to provide a single shared standard for web content accessibility that meets the needs of individuals, organizations and governments internationally. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **[Web Content Accessibility Guidelines**](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/) (<abbr>WCAG</abbr>) are part of a series of web accessibility guidelines published by the **[Web Accessibility Initiative](https://www.w3.org/WAI/about/)** (<abbr>WAI</abbr>) . The WCAG's goal is to provide a single shared standard for web content accessibility that meets the needs of individuals, organizations and governments internationally. 
```

## WCAG 2.0

> WCAG 2.0 was published on 11 december 2008 and consists of 12 to 13 guidelines. It is organized around four principles which form the acronym `POUR`.  They include:

Reviewer: WCAG is now at version 2.1, with version 2.2 due to be released shortly. Question for you: do you think we should use 2.1 in place of 2.0 here, or mention that while 2.0 was published in December of 2008 that version 2.1 is the current version that should be honored?

Author: To be honest, I think we should use 2.1

Reviewer: Cool. Maybe after the first sentence you can have another sentence explaining that 2.1 is the current standard. I know you have some language later in the piece that goes into it, but I worry that people skimming the piece won't get that.

Author: Sounds great! I've done that

> WCAG 2.0 was published on 11 december 2008 and consists of 12 to 13 guidelines. It is organized around four principles which form the acronym `POUR`.  They include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WCAG 2.0 was published on 11 December 2008 and consists of 12 to 13 guidelines. It is organized around four principles which form the acronym `POUR`.  They include:
```

> WCAG 2.0 was published on 11 december 2008 and consists of 12 to 13 guidelines. It is organized around four principles which form the acronym `POUR`.  They include:

Reviewer: >consists of 12 to 13 guidelines

Which is it?

Author: I was a little bit confused. But I'm positive it's 12

> WCAG 2.0 was published on 11 december 2008 and consists of 12 to 13 guidelines. It is organized around four principles which form the acronym `POUR`.  They include:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WCAG 2.0 was published on 11 december 2008 and consists of 12 to 13 guidelines. It is organized around four principles which form the acronym "POUR".  They include:
```

Let's use quotes instead of backticks for POUR, as it is an acronym and not code.

Author: Okay. Please do you mind educating me on when to use backticks and when to use quotes?

> 1. Content must be `perceivable (P)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 1. Content must be Perceivable (P)
```

- Provide a text alternative for all non-text content.
- Provide synchronized alternatives for multimedia (such as captioned video, audio descriptions and so forth).
- Information and structure must be separate from presentation.
- Make it easy to distinguish foreground information from the background (for example good color contrast).

> 2. Interfaces must be `operable (O)`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2. Interfaces must be Operable (O) 
```

- All functionality must be operable via keyboard.
- All users must be able to control limits on their reading or interaction.
- Users must be to avoid content that can cause seizures due to photosensitivity.
- Provide mechanisms for users to find content, orientate themselves and navigate through it.
- Help users avoid  mistakes and make it easier to correct mistakes when they occur.

> 3. Content and controls must be `understandable (U)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 3. Content and controls must be Understandable (U)
```

- Make text content readable and understandable.
- Make the placement and functionality of content predictable.

> 4. Content must be `robust (R)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 4. Content must be Robust (R)
```

- Support compatibility with current and future user agents.
- Ensure that content is accessible, or provide accessible alternatives.

> ### Layers of guidance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Layers of guidance
```

> WCAG 2.0 provides various ways to help authors meet its standard called `layers of guidance`. They include the following :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WCAG 2.0 provides various ways to help authors meet its standard called "layers of guidance". They include the following :
```

Quoting this as well. Can we also wrap "layers of guidance" to a link to the relevant page?

Author: Yes we can.

- Guidelines.
- Success criteria.
- Techniques.
- Common failures.

> ### Guidelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Guidelines
```

> WCAG 2.0 guidelines are categorized into 3 [levels of conformance](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/conformance#levels) in order to meet the needs of different groups and situations. Under each principle, there is a [list of guidelines](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#guidelines) that addresses the principles. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WCAG 2.0 guidelines are categorized into [3 levels of conformance](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/conformance#levels) in order to meet the needs of different groups and situations. Under each principle, there is a [list of guidelines](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/#guidelines) that addresses the principles. 
```

> ### Success criteria

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Success criteria
```

> Under each guideline, there are success criteria that describe specifically what is to be done in order to conform to the standard.  Each success criteria is written as a statement that will be either true or false when specific web content is tested against it.  A convenient [list of the success criteria](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/quickref/) can be found here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Under each guideline, there are success criteria that describe specifically what is to be done in order to conform to the standard.  Each success criteria is written as a statement that will be either true or false when specific web content is tested against it.  A convenient [list of the success criteria](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/quickref/) is also provided.
```

Updating this to make where "here" is less unclear.

Author: Okay.

> ### Techniques

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Techniques
```

> The techniques document provides guidance for web authors and evaluators on meeting WCAG 2.0  success criteria. A convenient l[ist of the WCAG2.0 techniques](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/) can be found here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The techniques document provides guidance for web authors and evaluators on meeting WCAG 2.0  success criteria. A convenient [list of the WCAG2.0 techniques](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/) is also provided.
```

> ### Common failures

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Common failures
```

> These are common mistakes that are considered failures of Success Criteria of WCAG 2.0. An [elaborate list of  WCAG2.0 common failures](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/failures) can be found here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These are common mistakes that are considered failures of Success Criteria of WCAG 2.0. A [comprehensive list of  WCAG2.0 common failures](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/failures) is also provided.
```

## What's new?

> WCAG 2.1 was published on June 2018. It was initiated with the aim of improving accessibility guidance for three major groups: users with cognitive or learning disabilities, users with low vision and users with disabilities on mobile devices. There are additional success criteria in WCAG 2.1 that are not in WCAG2.0. They are introduced in [What’s New in WCAG 2.1](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/new-in-21/). For  a  detailed  review of WCAG 2.1 , see  [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WCAG 2.1 was published on June 2018. It was initiated with the aim of improving accessibility guidance for three major groups: 

1. People with cognitive or learning disabilities, 
1. People with low vision, and 
1. People with disabilities on mobile devices. 

There are additional success criteria in WCAG 2.1 that are not in WCAG 2.0. They are introduced in [What’s New in WCAG 2.1](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/new-in-21/). 

For a detailed  review of WCAG 2.1 , see  [Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/)
```

Broke out a list for easier reading. We also [prefer the term "person" to "user"](http://localhost:3000/content-style-guide/#user-or-person-).

Author: Thanks a lot that's very thoughtful. Forgive me for using the term "user".

> According to W3C :

Reviewer: ```suggestion
According to the W3C :
```

> According to W3C :

Reviewer: Can we link to the page you're quoting? It's good to cite your source for something like this.

Author: Yes we can

> > While WCAG 2.0 remains a W3C recommendation, the W3C advices the use of WCAG 2.1 in order to maximize future applicability of accessibility efforts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> While WCAG 2.0 remains a W3C recommendation, the W3C advises the use of WCAG 2.1 in order to maximize future applicability of accessibility efforts.
```

In effect, the  publication of WCAG 2.1 does not nullify WCAG 2.0 as content that conforms to WCAG 2.0 also conforms to WCAG 2.1. 

Additional Note:  WCAG 2.2 is scheduled to be published in 2021.

## Summary

The following are important points to remember:

- WCAG is a set of accessibility guidelines published by WAI.
- WCAG 2.0 and WCAG 2.1 are stable, referenceable technical standards.
- They have 12-13 guidelines that are organized under 4 principles: perceivable, operable, understandable, and robust.

> - Content that conforms to WCAG 2.0  is also compatible with  WCAG 2.1 .

Reviewer: I really like these summary sections you include. Great for cognitive accessibility!

Author: Thank you
